Amass – Asset Discovery Lab (Hub 1)
Overview

In this lab, I used Amass as part of the Asset Discovery section in Hub 1. The objective was to perform comprehensive asset discovery by combining passive and active reconnaissance techniques to uncover domains, subdomains, and related infrastructure.

Amass is one of the most powerful asset discovery tools used in cybersecurity due to its ability to map an organization’s external footprint.

Objective

The objective of this task was to:

Perform subdomain enumeration using Amass

Understand the difference between passive and active discovery

Identify how Amass expands the attack surface

Collect structured asset information

Environment Setup

Operating System: Kali Linux

Shell: training-shell

Lab Platform: Hub 1 – Asset Discovery

Browser: Kali Firefox

Lab Access: http://localhost

I confirmed the lab was running by executing:

running

What is Amass?

Amass is an open-source asset discovery and attack surface mapping tool developed by OWASP.

It gathers information using:

DNS enumeration

Certificate Transparency logs

Search engines

Web scraping

Active probing (when enabled)

Unlike Subfinder, Amass can perform both passive and active enumeration.

Why Amass is Important in Asset Discovery

Amass helps identify:

Subdomains

IP addresses

Autonomous Systems (ASNs)

Network blocks

Related domains

This provides a complete picture of the target’s infrastructure.

Task Execution and Commands Used
1️⃣ Passive Subdomain Enumeration

To run Amass in passive mode:

amass enum -passive -d targetdomain.com


Why passive mode is used:

No direct interaction with the target

Safer and stealthier

Ideal for early reconnaissance

2️⃣ Active Enumeration

To perform active enumeration:

amass enum -active -d targetdomain.com


What active mode does:

Sends DNS queries directly

Validates discovered subdomains

Finds more assets than passive mode

3️⃣ Saving Output to a File

To save results:

amass enum -d targetdomain.com -o amass-results.txt


This allows further analysis and reporting.

Key Observations

Amass discovered more subdomains than Subfinder

Active mode increased discovery depth

Output included validated DNS data

Results provided insight into domain relationships

Limitations of Amass

Slower than Subfinder

More complex to configure

Active mode may be detected

Conclusion

This lab showed how Amass performs deep asset discovery by combining multiple techniques. I learned how to use both passive and active modes to uncover a broader attack surface.

Amass is best suited for comprehensive reconnaissance after initial discovery with simpler tools.